Unit 1

Artificial Neural Networks: Perceptron Learning algorithm, Feedforward neural networks, activation
functions, backpropagation algorithm, loss functions, Gradient Descent - Stochastic Gradient Descent
(SGD), Mini Batch Stochastic Gradient Descent (MB-SGD), Optimization methods - SGD with
momentum, Adaptive Gradient (AdaGrad), RMSprop, Adam, Regularization - L2 regularization, Ll
regularization and dropout. Implementation of ANN using TensorFlow.


UNIT - 2

Convolutional Neural Networks: Convolution, filters, stride, padding, feature maps, Architecture of CNNs - input layer, convolutional layers, activation functions, pooling layers, fully connected layers,
output layer, training, pre-trained CNN models, transfer learning, image classification. TensorfFow implementation.


UNIT - 3

Sequence Models: Introduction to Sequence Modeling, word embeddings, Recurrent Neural Networks
(RNNs) - Basic architecture of RNNs, Language model and sequence generation, Sentiment analysis,
Vanishing and exploding gradient problems in RNNs, Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) and Gated
Recurrent Unit (GRU) architectures to address the vanishing gradient problem, Training RNNs.


UNIT - 4

Generative Models: Autoencoders, Architecture and training of autoencoders for unsupervised
representation learning, Variants of autoencoders - Denoising autoencoders, sparse autoencoders, and
contractive autoencoders, Variational Autoencoders (VAEs), The encoder-decoder framework and the
reparameterization, The role of the latent space in VAEs for generating new samples, Generative
Adversarial Networks (GANs) - Understanding the GAN architecture with generator and discriminator
networks.













2. Comparison of Representation Power:

a) Compare the representation power of a Single Layer Perceptron to that of a Feed Forward Neural Network. 

b)Compare perceptron with Sigmoid.

3. Comparison of Gradient Descent Algorithms:

a) Compare the following Gradient:
i. Batch Gradient Descent
ii. Stochastic Gradient Descent

b) Compare the following Gradient:
i. Mini Batch Gradient Descent
ii. Momentum Based (Gradient Descent)
iii. Nesterov Accelerated Gradient Descent

4. Comparison of Neural Network Architectures:

a) Compare Convolutional Neural Network with Feed Forward Neural Network.
b) Describe the GoogLeNet architecture.
OR
Compare LeNet with AlexNet.
c) Compare VGGNet and ResNet.




2. Give one example for a Sequence learning problem.
Write the characteristics of Sequence models.
What is the exploding gradient problem?
What is the vanishing gradient problem?
What is Transliteration?
What is an Autoencoder?
Give one application of an Autoencoder.

C.NIT -1
Write about Recurrent Neural Networks along with their advantages and disadvantages.
(OR)
Write about Long Short-Term Memory Network.

UNIT - 11
How to model a Machine Translation problem using Encoder-Decoder paradigm?
(OR)
How to model a Language Question Answering problem using Encoder-Decoder paradigm?

Assignment — II (45 minutes)
1. How to model an image caption using Encoder-Decoder paradigm?
(If the digit in the units place of your ID number is even)
2. How to model a textual entailment problem using Encoder-Decoder paradigm?
(If the digit in the units place of your ID number is odd)